---
layout: post
published: true
title: "Database As a Supporter, not an Enemy of Narrative"
category: commentary
author: Deniz Aksel
tags: 
  - The Database
---

### Our Fascination with the Narrative Form
Manovich's ideas on databases and its juxtaposition with traditional narrative  in media were extremely interesting to read in parallel with what we have done for this class thus far. One thing that bacame evident almost immediately was how almost all of the activities and projects we have done so far focus on raw, decontextualized databases. After exploring tools likes scrapers, Postman, or Fusion Tables, our assignments almost always consisted of thinking about ways to utilize these tools within a **meaningful context**. It was cool to see the technology (and labor) used to develop the CFRP database. But in the case of my group (the Chenier Focus), the project became infinitely more interesting when we read some historical background on the theater and generated an "educated" research question that related to a historical narrative. Similarly, the Moby Dick project was cool, but the one prominent idea that the whole class agreed on was that it would be much more interesting if the points matched the iteniary of the boat (i.e. the narrative) rather than all locations mentioned in the book.

Compiling databases is great, and new tehnologies that do it better are always appreciated. But I often find myself much more fascinated with contextualized data. In the text, Manovich wonders why the narrative form (albeit consumed and re-defined by databases) still persists in human culture. I think that our fascination with the narrative form will never be fully replaced by databases. If anything, databases can form a foundation for novel narrative forms (such as the map-guided Moby Dick project).

### Database as a Limiting Factor?
While talking about the shift from the syntagmatic to the paradigmatic in the manifestation of new media, Manovich  makes the statement that new media causes us to mistake "selection" for "creation". It is true that the "interactive narrative" structures presented via new media (e.g, make your-own-story novels, video games with multiple alternate outcomes, such as [Heavy Rain](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heavy_Rain), or [The Stanley Parable](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Stanley_Parable)) are in fact all limited to finite possible, meaningful connections. So the process of merely using an interactive interface could be seen as an act of selection. However, I have a hard time agreeing with Manovich's claim that "the cognitive processes in understanding any cultural text(...)" are in any way diminished or eliminated, or replaced in this process.

It seems like Manovich sees the physical manifestation of the paradigmatic in the form of databases as a limiting factor to the human trail of thought. He believes that a presented network of conected data points makes things explicit to the point where we are limited in how we interpret these points. However, I have a much more optimistic approach to this situation - a perspective similar to Vannevar Bush's. I believe that a presented infrastructure of paradigms in the form of databases supports creative thinking, and augments the pscychological experience of media. To clarify with an example, I benefit immensely from encyclopedic databases on the web while working on the process of creating a new piece of text or developing an opinion. Despite the computerization of data organization and presentation, we as users of this data are still quite human. And in my experience we are fairly incapable of absorbing information without any form of personal interpretation, which falls under the catagory of creative thinking. So I think it's more accurate to claim that "selection" supports "creation" rather than replacing it.

