---
layout: post
published: true
title: "Thoughts on \"Reading in a Participatory Culture\""
category: commentary
author: Benjamin Reynolds
tags: 
  - Participatory Culture
---

The overall message of “Reading in a Participatory Culture” is consistent with the general themes I keep hearing in this and other CMS classes. The world is changing. Access to digital technologies and the Internet are changing the way we function as a society, and our understanding of media and the humanities needs to change to remain relevant. And our education system needs to change to reflect these new ideas.

I like when the authors say: “The skills, practices, and dispositions students are encouraged to develop are filtered through a system designed in an outdated world.” This does remind me of some of my own experiences going through school. I was lucky enough to have some great teachers and an overall good educational experience, but there were of course times when things like rote memorization were prioritized above a more personal, purposeful engagement with the material. The quote reminds me of how the structure of many schools, with desks and a strict bell schedule, were partly designed in response to the assembly-line industrial age of nearly a hundred years ago. It seems about time that we update it for our more connected world.

I did appreciate how this reading emphasized that we shouldn’t try to get rid of the existing processes entirely, but rather we should think of new media as an additional layer that adds to the more traditional, scholarly layer. Too often people try to bring change by completely defying the existing model, but you can usually be more effective if you work within and expand upon the current system. The authors recognize this when they say that “changes in educational practices are more often evolutionary than revolutionary.”

Over the years, I’ve picked up a number of skills related to producing and consuming new media. By nature, I love making things, so I often learn to do new things with technology out of my own volition. I was fortunate to have parents that made technology accessible to me at a young age so that I could play around and experiment with making things. As a young kid, I would draw pictures, and later animate them, on my father’s old computer that he left at home. When I was 13, my father casually introduced me to Scratch, a new application he heard about that made it easy for anyone to make interactive content. I was completely captivated by the possibilities, and spent much of the next couple years making things with Scratch and sharing them online. A few years later, I decided to learn to program, and built Flash games that I shared online, and I even started a blog where I shared advice about making games with the community.

All of this was done outside of the classroom, because my classes were always more focused on a more traditional curriculum. I enjoyed school nonetheless, but the skills that have been most integral to my success in our participatory culture were things that I taught myself. This was possible because the Internet makes so much knowledge accessible. If there were a way to incorporate more of these organic learning experiences into the classroom, I would fully support it.

As such, the core principles outlined in this reading all seem very reasonable to me. The first is to address the participation gap. I think that’s really important, because although I way fortunate enough to be able to participate from an early age, this isn’t the case for everyone. The next core principle is to bring new perspectives into the English classroom. I agree that there are more ways to engage a text than as a “literary scholar. Classrooms seem to privilege this single way of understanding a text, but there are certainly other perspectives to to learn from. The next principle is to begin with core concepts, and expand from there; as I said before, I like this idea of combining traditional and nontraditional practices, as opposed to removing the old practices entirely. The authors say it’s “messier” and can be tough for instructors, but it seems much more engaging. The authors also say that including popular culture in the classroom is worth it, because despite being “messy” and difficult to teach around, it leads to more personal connections and expressive opportunities. I definitely had a positive experience when one of my classes in high school used current events to scaffold our lessons. 

The next principle is the media studies approach, which involves what they call “transmedia navigation.” As a freshman at MIT, I took the 21L.009 Global Shakespeare class, where we watched multicultural, cinematic interpretations in addition to reading his traditional texts. It was a very interesting and led to a different set of discussions than one would achieve in a typical Shakespeare class.

Finally, I appreciate the authors’ stance on technology; I agree that it’s important to offer low-tech options because not everyone will have access to technology. If we truly want to reduce the participation gap, it’s important to ensure that access to technology isn’t a barrier for participation.