---
layout: post
published: true
title: Taking Augmented Space for Granted
category: commentary
author: Karleigh Moore
tags: 
  - Augmented Space
---

The ideas that Manovich presents in the “Poetics of Augmented Space” resonated with me in many respects. First, concepts and features of augmented spaces are certainly present in our world today (I noticed that Manovich uses a lot of information from the 1990’s, this is not surprising given that this article was published in 2002). I think that a lot of the augmented space that Manovich points out exists in public spaces, such as Time Square, as part of “futuristic architecture”, and in retail spaces is generally advertising content. Some displays in areas of the MBTA will include the date, time, and current weather, but otherwise are largely advertising local events and various products. Time Square of course is a huge and prominent place for ads. I don’t know how many examples of retail spaces using augmented space ideas, but Manovich seems to suggest that retail spaces use lighting and mirror aspects to create an augmented experience — so focusing on the physical objects perhaps more than the electronic content. Even just walking down MIT’s Infinite Corridor, there are projection screens and TV screens announcing things from upcoming events to the local bus schedules. I’m not even sure if people in today’s world, particularly members of my generation and later, would regard these features as expanding or augmenting our space as these have virtually always been features. I wonder what sorts of things will be invented that we might consider to augment our space in this fashion — perhaps Google Glass and Oculus Rift sorts of technologies. I think that we pretty much expect to see LCD displays in most public areas, particularly in high density areas (Time Square, airports, malls etc) and in most indoor areas in general. I think ideas of augmented reality are not only second nature but probably taken for granted in today's world. We have an increased demand and expectation for interactivity. On the other end of the spectrum, I could imagine that many people have mixed feelings about the constant integration of technology to more and more aspects of our lives — riding in a taxi (Uber) can be a social media activity, our music listening habits can be shared (spotified), and we don't even have to go to the store or to our computer to buy more laundry detergent (Amazon Dash).