---
layout: post
published: true
title: "Big Data, better data? "
category: commentary
author: Eileen Rivera
---

Provocation #3: Big Data is Not Always Better Data
	In big data, there is a lot to question. The source in which the big data is brought from isn't always representative of the population. With applications and social media there is a great amount of forethough put into postings and information and is not represenative of all demographics. There are other measures in data sets other than size that can serve and represent the information being tested. The right size for a data set is not a standardized number, it is highly variable based on the data at hand, as the provocation mentioned small data sets can prove better and more effective in certain instances. It is important to consider replicability, governance, security, optimization, and management and with large data sets one can fall short in such measures.  Data size is variable based on how large the entitiy conducting the research is, and quality proceeds size often always. Earlier this year I read an article discussing how small data will run 2015. The shortcomings of large data were discussed, there are gaps in information that can be filled with small data. Apart from the literal difference in size, there are great differences in design that create valuable results. Small data is more easily gathered and we are often surrounded by it. All in all, it comes down to the end user, and small data sets can often find and fit the needs of the end user. 
    
Provocation #5: Limited Access to Big Data Creates New Digtial Devices
	As discussed there is a large divide in accesibility and creation of Big Data due to knowledge and income gaps. In thinking of this it is important to consider the monetary value of big data. I think a large divide of big data is created because of the value creation. In using free applications, I see myself as the customer directly, I am creating data and monetary value. On the other hand, digital devices are becoming increasingly automated and more accesible to the public. Tasks that were often impossible for the everyday person to complete are now automized and available to the general public. Tools for harvesting and make use of data are often free and incredibly easy to use. For example, I was thinking about how Microsoft recently made Apache Storm available to the public, increasing indiviudals ability to understand data analystics, in an easy manner.All in all, I think in big data there are larger issues than the divide, perhaps the gap is widened with individuals wrongly utilizing big data. 