---
layout: post
published: false
title: The Database
category: updates
---

So I found this article kind of frustrating. On the one hand, Manovich seems to believe that artists using new media are capable of producing arresting, interesting works, and then on the other believes that just because their databases are explicit, they're worth less.

My feeling is that he is rather hypocritical. If I showed him something I called "a linear narrative constructed from a database of sentences" and then handed him a book on a computer, it sounds like his argument is that its worth less because I worked from existing data. If I printed the same book and handed it to him, would he rejoice in it being "the perfect random access medium" and how its narrative must have been sublimely constructed from thin air? The paradigm and syntagm dynamic he describes seems to me to put less worth on creating a narrative if you only did it from existing pieces. The final film that he talks about, its only difference from the other pieces he slanders is that he argues the film effects were used to a certain purpose, to fuel the ideas in the narrative. John Whitney, with Catalog, may have laid his effects in an order he felt was more pleasing to experience, or even felt like a coherent thought. Why is that worth less?

He also ignores that books go through the same editing process as film. Sure, film tends to be a bit heavy on extra material that doesn't make it to the final cut, but editors exist for authors and often they start with much more material than finally shows up in the finished product. He talks about how playing computer games can be reduced to the act of reproducing the game's generative algorithm. I read that interview with Will Wright too, and he forgets the part where Wright speaks on how people interacting with The Sims project narrative onto their digital housemates, construct relationships and lives even as they do little more than keep them from burning their houses down. Is it worse that the narrative isn't implicit? If I gave someone a set of written pages, and they construct a book containing a narrative that's meaningful to them, is that inherently worth less, like Manovich seems to think, than handing them a book I made from the same pages and forcing them to read it a certain way?

If you couldn't tell, I have a personal grudge against people who hold books up as the perfect example of a true medium. I work a lot in interactive (the dreaded word) media on computers, and when I see someone have a lower opinion of games or other pieces of new media simply because they're not the cherished pastime of books, I get angry. I read a large number of books as a kid. I also played a lot of video games. The first piece of media that ever made me really care about the characters it contained was Okami, a playstation 2 game. When people talk about boiling down these games to their algorithm, they refuse to acknowledge the capacity for engagement. The feelings that I project onto these characters are no different than the way I imagine what characters look like while reading a book, or decide on the smell in the air of a scene in a movie. It is, to me, a serious pretension to look down on new media for having the database at heart. Books are a series of sentences or pages. Games are no more an assemblage of pre-made effects and pieces than books are a collection of sentences the author had heard before and recombined into her book.

Apologies for the long post.