---
layout: post
published: true
title: Thoughts on Big Data
category: commentary
author: Karleigh Moore
---

**Just Because it is Accessible Doesn’t Make it Ethical**

This section reminded me of something we discussed in my CMS.100 class regarding Target's use of data it collected about its customers. Target essentially tracked each of its customer's purchases over a period of time and collected so much data and mashed this data with other data in such a way that Target's algorithms could predict when a woman was pregnant — sometimes even before she knew it or had told anyone else. They used this information to discretely target (no pun intended) ads to these groups they had the upper hand on. Target would send customized ads/catalogues to these new-mothers-to-be, advertising things such as baby strollers, diapers, and clothing for infants in an innocuous manner, hiding them among ads for lawn mowers and kitchen appliances — completly unrelated things, planted to avoid suspcison. This seems like a huge invasion of personal privacy — imagine knowing about Target's advertising methods and discovering an ad targeted to pregnant women among your teenaged daughter's mail. I'm sure that's not how anyone would want to kick off that conversation. I think that most certainly, just beacause some sort of data is accessible, it isn't immediatly appropriate or even moral or ethical to use it. 

**Bigger Data Are Not Always Better Data
**
The idea that bigger data, more data is better or more useful than smaller data (or even findings that some might not consider "data" i.e. qualitative info) is something that I've been thinking about in my UROP group. My research team does a lot of work using social science research methods that aren't quantitative, rather highly qualitative. The method I am currently employing in my research is ethnography, which is basically the study of people within their enviornment as part of their environment. I study fan communities in online spaces, particularly Tumblr. A question that I am sort of interested in is how researchers and media companies can use user information and data from online sites such as Tumblr and Twitter to make, say, television shows better. Twitter already has a hashtag system that is fairly easy to understand — if something is insanely popular, it is called "trending". Networks can gauge audience numbers and viewer reception pretty easily by counting the number of retweets, original posts, and likes that a tweet recieves. They can judge the viewer's response to a certain episode by seeing what other words (negative or positive) surround mentions of the network or the show specifically. But I think that there is more information to be had, particularly from Tumblr, which uses a similar tagging system. The kind of information that I think Tumblr can offer up could be more valuable than the sheer numbers that Twitter can provide. There is more fan context abound on Tumblr and using qualitative methods of ethnography and interviews in combination with quantitative methods of data scrapping and algorithms, there is a lot of potential to gain knowlegde about fan behavior, preferences, and activity. 