---
layout: post
published: false
category: updates
title: Assignment 5 Commentary
---
## A New Post

Enter text in [Markdown](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/). Use the toolbar above, or click the **?** button for formatting help.

## Chartchunk Debate
A good visual display of data should meet the two standards: providing meaningful information and delivering a well-designed presentation. Both of these standards are important in displaying the message to the viewers. Like most products, visual display needs to serve a purpose of delivering meaningful information but also make that presentation a pleasant experience for readers. For instance, a knife needs to provide the function of cutting cutable items while still have a good design to make user interaction/experience with the knife seamless and intuitive. If the design makes it awkward or painful for users to hold onto the knife handle, then it defeats the function of cutting. In a sense, it is hard to compare their significance since they are incomparable yet interindependent. Tufte coined the term chartjunk to emphasize the idea of susbtance over style in data presentation. Embellishment in graphs may distract readers from obtaining meaningful messages or masking misleading information. This is true when embellishment is poorly designed and incorrectly implemented. However, this argument is not strong enough to undermine or disgard the significance of embellishment. It just shows that given embellishment implemented poorly, the readers may be distracted from the actual content. Tufte's term chartjunk is vague in defining visual elements that cause distractions. Clearly, not all visual elements are distracting. I even argue that not many popular visual diplays of data have chartjunks. Chartjunks in data presentation do not have a long life span since they probably go out of style once readers find them unuseful, distracting, and complicating. Readers of data display are keen to recognize distracting visual elements themselves. They know what is visually appealling yet still informative and not distracting. Often, they, not the creators of the graphs, decide the style of the presentations. Both sides of the arguments do not give them enough credit. Tufte harshly critized Holmes for assuming that readers were obtuse, but his argument is subtly based on the assumption that readers are not smart. He raved over that fact Holmes' chartjunks mislead readers by chronicling the time of high inflation. It is good that he pointed out the flaw of the graph, but he also assumed that readers were not keen enough to also see the flaw and thus had been misled. 