---
layout: post
published: true
category: commentary
title: Assignment 6
author: Ping Zhang
---
The experience of The Enemy is great. There are two things I appreciated: First is the way the designer want to keep the eye contact of the interviewee and the visitors(me). This emotional interaction can make up some part of the unreality pity. The second the part is the human behavior details included in the character model. Every time when I listened to the talk, I would focus on the hand gesture of the character and compare them to see the difference and real inner emotions. Some people may be nervous and some may be excited. Back to the assignment's main task, in "The poetics of augmented space" article, the author mentioned this is a chance for architects to think about the relationship between the physical space and layering information. In my opinion, the organization of physical space is the same mission of arranging experience sequence. The task of architect is not only playing with physical material and construction, but also to be an experience designer. The reason why the author suggested architect should pay attention to this situation is that nowadays the role of architect has been simplified and separated. In the VR experience, I feel disappointed about the lose of material touching and gravity feeling. Which is to say, the fascinating part of real world still couldn’t be easily copied by VR. And also, when you put on the heavy devices, you lose the beautiful nature of freely involved in the world. In the "Transforming the Art Museum Experience: Gallery One", I also appreciate the effort of providing a lot of innovated choices for visitors to interact with the museum. But here, I questioned that does it weaken the relationship of the displayed objects and humanity? Would people feel disappointed if they realize they couldn’t try all of the technologies? Are these technologies too directed and limited without open end experience? Should we build a free platform and experience environment rather than providing tons of Apps?