---
layout: post
published: true
category: commentary
title: 20220217_Augmented_Reality
author: Marina Monsivais
tags:
  - Week 3
---
## _Cyber-animism and Augmented Dreams_, T. Thiel

It was interesting to read this piece that had such a different perspective than I have on Augmented Reality (AR). The thought of superimposing spirits & imaginative scenes onto an existing landscape is intriguing, especially in the sense of bringing childhood whimsy & honorable entities to life. In the era of a rapidly evolving science field that is battling misinformation, I found this line to be very powerful: 
> As astronomy and other sciences pushed back the known frontier between the visible and the invisible, even the heavens became explicable and that realm was lost -

  It makes me think about how in the quest for understanding How and Why, people can lose their sense of imagination & wonderment when their fantastical imaginings are explained away through scientific discoveries. Thiel discusses a lot of spiritual entities vs death, which seems to be a common motif throughout AR artists' creations, but I feel AR could be a great engagement tool for education. What could be an interesting use for AR in the museum is a space for people to regain this sense of wonder and let their imagination roam free, creating a mutable space for adding to the exhibits.
    
  I do think, however, that this technology is still quite exclusive in terms of general public access. It requires the technology as well as the know-how of actually accessing these art pieces. AR in a museum context should supplement an exhibit rather than act as the exhibit. In terms of remote GPS placements of pieces, these felt to me like people with technological power using to to make political statements with little direct consequence to the maker and a massive potential consequence to the on-looker (ie Goddess of Democracy geolocated in Tiananmen Square). It does not feel ethical to put these AR pieces into place from the other side of the world that have direct effects on the people living in that location. Additionally, placing pieces into a place of learning, like a museum, could spur increased unrest in those who engage with it; in a global rise of "misinformation" it could be more harmful to have ill-willed individuals marking the information as propoganda.