---
layout: post
published: true
category: commentary
title: 020822_What is a Museum?
author: Marina Monsivais
tags:
  - Week 2
---
## "Museums in Motion" E.P. Alexander and M. Alexander
 
  
In reading this first chapter, it really elucidated the drastic differrences in both curators' & patrons' understandings of what a museum is supposed to be. I did not initially know how museums evolved, and it's interesting to see that ancient museums were more similar to contemporary museums than Middle European collections of the wealthy. Returning to the idea that "musings and amusement are interrelated," it is evident that modern museums are attempting to return this balance. But how do we truly achieve this, when each patron's reasons for frequenting a museum can vary immensely? How can a museum cater to each difference in what is intriguing & entertaining? I believe the answer to this could be an increased accessibility to entry in both finances and in vibe of the museum; limiting entry fees (or doing donation-based entry) could greatly allow for increased visitation as well as limiting the feeling of museums being untouchable (i.e. regal or high-class). Creating a more casual & comfortable environment could be key to encouraging new demographics to enjoy museums.
    
Towards the end, there was a point about Collections that had an interesting point of view on what a collection means. Based on Stephen Williams' account, Williams seems to deem a collection as a stagnant, dead, tangible objects. However, I don't think that a collection necessarily needs to have any of these qualities; a botanical garden is a growing & living collection of flora & fauna and the knowledge of how the two interact, a children's museum without a "collection" still has a collection of ideas & exploratory exhibits that facilitate adolescent development. This out-dated view of what makes a museum a museum and its corresponding definition of a collection is part of the driving force that has put many more traditional museums in financial arrears. Indeed, funding these extensive collections resulted in neglect of "institutional needs from salaries to operating expenses." Moving beyond collections as physical objects could perhaps encourage museums to become more innovative in the experience of their patrons and encourage new visitation & involvement from the community (as well as promoting financial stability & support). 
    
