---
layout: post
published: true
category: commentary
title: 'New ways of knowledge creation and dissipation? '
author: Riad El Soufi
tags:
  - Week 2
---

## Topic: History of Museums - Collecting & Curating: For whom by whom?

I was intrigued by the different definitions of what constitutes a musuem and how it was perceived overtime. I observed an obvious tension between the musuem owner’s desire to educate, research and advance knowledge as compared to the visitor’s desire to be awestruck. That is not to diminish the fact that most visitors also desire to be educated, however there is a subliminal sense of expectation to be wow-ed or entertained by musuem contents / exhibits that stands out vs. the former. This can be observed when following the way museums have morphed over time; beginning with collections mostly reserved for aristocrats and seen as displays of wealth and power into becoming institutions of public service. It is interesting to note the changes in musuem’s accessibility for the public and the efforts placed at ensuring the collections “made sense”. For example, the addition of musuem interpreters seen as a way to allow visitors to “make sense of the collections and place them in broader social context”. Similarly, the focus on community and relevance is becoming ever more important for a musuem’s audience. That being said, education and the creation of knowledge remains an important factor in determining the musuem’s role in the communities of today. Especially with the rapid spread of fake news and false knowledge    through community pockets across the world. As mentioned in the reading “Before Museums: The Curiosity Cabinet as Metamorphe”, there is a significant need for the creation of culture around each museum object. As noted with the example of the “Cabinet” at the Enchated Palace exhibition at Kensington Palace, this body of culture and knowledge does not always transcend the confines of the musuem or cultural context it once belonged to. When transported through space and time, the once revered cabinets of the world, in that example, today inhabit “a little glass box at the top of an obscure staircase”. This got me to imagine a life in 200 or 300 years where Marcel Duchamp’s Fountain finds home in a bathroom space. Can museums participate in a form of knowledge  creation that transcends that? Through online archives or encyclopedias maybe? 

I believe this calls for the importance of an element of knowledge creation and dissipation beyond the simple categorization & display of objects - this is although very much the case today. However, I do believe that museums that increasingly surrender their position or identity as institutes of knowledge creation do risk interpretation beyond what is reasonable historic knowledge or context. While leveraging the current access and openness to a wide community audience, how can museums maintain a two-way conversation without sacrificing the wider and richer context that objects carry? Am I being overly cautious or is this a real risk for you too? Curious to hear the class’s thoughts.  
