---
layout: post
published: true
category: ext-projects
title: Quai Branly
author: Gauthier Guinet
---
The museum I chose is the "**Musée du Quai Branly-Jacques Chirac**". It was designed by the French architect Jean Nouvel in the center of Paris to present the **art and indigenous cultures of Africa, Asia, Oceania and the Americas**. The museum's collection includes more than one million objects (ethnographic objects, photographs, documents, etc.), of which 3,500 are on display at any given time in permanent and temporary thematic exhibitions. It is managed by the **French Ministry of Culture and Communication and the Ministry of Higher Education and Research**. One of its particularities is that it serves as both a **museum and a research center**. As Michael Kimmelman, the New York Times architecture critic, recounts in a review "[The museum is designed] like a frightening jungle, red, black and dark, the objects within it chosen and arranged with a logic that is difficult to discern. The place is briefly exciting, as a spectacle, but staggeringly stupid.... The place simply doesn't make sense. The old, the new, the good, the bad are mixed together without much reason or explanation, except for the visual theater."

I have to admit that I partially agree with his vision after visiting it a couple of times and was really curious to see if the museum's online presence was similar. I was very positively surprised by the result. To begin with, the site is **new, dynamic and well constructed**. In terms of accessibility, it is available in 11 languages and mentions a wide range of services for people with disabilities. It offers a diverse value proposition beyond the simple museum experience, between a bookstore, a media library, a theater, a cinema and two restaurants. The collections are **fully digitized** (807791 works, 279198 books and journals, 6753 films and videos, 10562 audios and 37669 archives), with a quite efficient search engine. More global presentations are accessible by section, with historical content, videos. The visitor can also access **details about the collections** (news, loans, partnerships, acquisitions, maintenance) in a modern, efficient and attractive format. 

Exhibitions are quite frequent, of various themes and very well publicized (metro commercials, magazines, newspapers, online ads). Numerous activities and workshops are organized: between escape game, storytelling visits on specific themes, workshops or videoconferences for all ages and levels. Nearly **40 visit options are offered for teachers and animators**, as well as proposals for collaborative projects over several months. The museum has a scientific research component, which manifests itself through a journal, frequent specialized colloquia, scholarships and thesis awards.

One of the major questions that remains is the **connection with the communities**whose heritage is displayed in the museum.  Indeed, the museum has been the subject of **controversy**, with some calling for the repatriation of its collections acquired during the colonial conquest. The latter is hardly mentioned here and its management is surely very complex. Apart from that, I am impressed by the whole community that the museum seems to manage to address. Nomadic workshops are also organized in the Paris suburbs. 

To conclude, the museum seems to succeed in occupying a central and attractive position, in a **niche offer** that it controls perfectly on many levels. At have to confess that I subscribed to the newsletter at the end.