---
layout: post
published: true
category: commentary
title: 2.1 commentary
author: Trudy Painter
tags:
  - Week 2
---
# “What is a Museum?”, in E. & A. Alexander

This was a great paper to walk through the history of museums. It gave insightful context to understand the challenges that museums face today (public vs private support, measuring success, research, authority, collections). 

I thought it was an interesting point that museums were originally made to serve the upper class and showcase art from conquests or personal lifetime collections. However, with the pivot to increase public education and find more "respectable" forms of entertainment, museums had to change directions. Museums were no longer storage houses for preservation and deep research. The museums needed to meet the wants of the public while staying true to their integrity of educational value.  

This led into the point that museums are starting to appeal to the public by branding their "uniqueness." And, they are also taking steps to reverse the stigma against museums being boring or obsolete by inviting contemporary artists. An example of some of this modern rebranding is Google Arts & Culture's website that partners with physical museums. Google creates a platform for online exhibitions that makes the archival material accessible for a wide array of audiences. Visitors don't even need to go to the physical exhibit (for better or for worse). 

The link for the Google Arts & Culture site is below. 
https://artsandculture.google.com/partner
