---
layout: post
published: true
category: commentary
title: Assign2
author: Gauthier Guinet
tags:
  - Week 2
---
### What is a Museum?

Maliciously, the museum seems to play on our difficulty to define and enclose it within a universal definition. If it appears in an epoch under certain attributes, it is to lose them at once in the following century or city. A place of paradox by construction, it shows us the abnormal, that which is out of the ordinary and seems to want to be in it too. Some say that it is the fruit of the passion or even the addiction of the collector, devouring more and more of these strange, mysterious or sublime objects. Privileged are those who can enter the lair of this strange beast always hungry to admire the dishes of his feast. Sometimes the den becomes a temple, and around its totems, the artist and the philosopher drink and collect the sparkles of their muses. Theoretical, scholarly, it is then more suggestive than revealing. Yet, this is without counting the stakes: the Americans want him to be an entrepreneur and independent, the French turn him into an instrument of national glory, the jewel of the centralizing state. Instead of being, it now wishes to appear: it is in the eyes of its visitor that it exists and no longer in the sacred cellars of the curators. His new tasks are to educate, interpret, connect and empower. Juxtaposing the natural and the artificial is no longer enough, it is asked to be a bridge between the past and the future of the visitor. But why stop there? Bold, it takes taste to the exercise and wants now to be a civic forum and not a cultural curiosity, as Duncan Cameron says it well. Armed with all his artifices, stories, song, and speech, he once again claims the attention of his community. Terribly jealous, it never stops judging his fellow museums, criticizing their decisions or the richness of their collections, especially if they dare to compete with him. A fearful adventurer, the digital world and more broadly the future attracts him but nothing in his archives refers to it and the artists are double-edged guides.

### Before Museums: The Curiosity Cabinet as Metamorphe

After reading "The Curiosity Cabinet as Metamorph" by Bowry, several points remained in mind. First of all, the author attempts to restore the cabinet to its rightful place as a unique cultural practice instead of the more common status of the museum's unfulfilled ancestor. This is possible through several subtle arguments. In particular, the emphasis seems to be on the act of categorization, methodical, almost scientific, beyond mere possession. Thanks to this, the collection, discrete and finite in nature, makes room for endless connections and interpretations between the categories it presents and those it suggests. The idea that the collection allows us to tame and even appropriate an increasingly vast and mysterious world seems to me very relevant. This has led me to wonder about the recent fashion of NFT which seems to want to define a particularly similar concept in the digital world. I also wanted to conclude on the fact that this practice seems to be limited to a cultural and social elite, capable of appreciating the content as well as the exercise performed.
