---
layout: post
published: true
category: commentary
title: AI
author: yunsong liu
tags:
  - Week 6
---
**How Are museums using AI, and is AI the future of museums?:**
Computational affordance of AI alludes to a future of high-technology museum experience and research methodology which I think is amazing. My question regarding the museum operation using AI predicating model is that this application seems to be a materialized version of social media / e-commerce/ search engine algorithms. With great power, there comes great controversies related to algorithms used by large corporations to regiment the material and social asymmetries. On the engagement side, I wonder if there are more meaningful ways of interaction that match their technical significance.

**The Shape of Art History in the Eyes of the Machine**
This paper is a work of art itself. I find it intriguing the techno-poetics coming from a pure analytic approach to art style classification. The most fascinating part is that who we usually regard as ‘masters’ fall onto the periphery of the chart. However I wonder whether it is that they are "extreme points" or their works are simply uncapturable by calculation, and the uncapturability(unmeasurability by math) constitutes the primitive aspect of art creation. 
One minute question I had while reading it is their statement of the finding through machine learning corresponds with Heinrich Wolflin’s theories of art styles, but isn’t that the classification human (tags for training) adopted is under the Wolflin’s influence. In this regards, machine serves a highly calculated representation of Wolflin’s preconstructed thought (or dominating theorists’). I wonder if by the same logic, anyone could use a classification system and the machine will prove it’s credibility.
