---
layout: post
published: true
category: commentary
title: 20220331_Storytelling
author: Marina Monsivais
tags:
  - Week 8
---
### Digital Storytelling in Museums: Observations and Best Practices; B. Wyman, S. Smith, D. Meyers, M. Godfrey
  
> use modes of interaction that will not seem outmoded next Thursday
  
  This is such an important line -- technology is continuously evolving (both in function and preferred user design) that makes keeping up with the latest design very difficult and expensive for museums. It does not matter what technology we use to encourage engagement if our audience becomes quickly bored or uninterested in the mode of engagement. I think something important in balancing the triangular relationship between media, space, and visitors is to ensure that the story is cohesive and the interaction can continually evolve based on the relationship between story and viewer. One of the sections is titled "Technology as a Last Resort" - we should not be relying on the technology, which is constantly evolving, to convey the museum message but rather turn to technology last to see if there is any supplementary benefit that it can provide to the exhibit.
  
### Design is Storytelling; E. Lupton

  I really loved reading this work. I think that multisensory design, not just telling a visual story, is greatly important to reengage audiences in a different way than they have previously experienced. The idea of a space being dynamic because "time never stands still" resonated with the audio representation of the Black Experience at MIT project. Audio is especially time-based, moreso than other senses - when you listen to a constant audio piece or are in a conversation you cannot truly rewind that sound or time - which makes it explicitly more dynamic. Making sure that there is a purposeful layout of the speakers and organization of the audio information will allow us to maximize user engagement and ensure that each user can create their own unique experience through a set of 'stagnant' audio data.