---
layout: post
published: false
category: updates
title: 20220215_The_Experience_Economy
---
## _Reinventing the Museum_

### _Engage the Five Senses_
  As someone interested in memory, I found that the most important principle would be to purposefully engage any of the five senses. In fact, there have been many cognitive studies that have shown that smell & taste are the two most important senses for longer-lasting memories - 40+yrs of evoked olfactory memory vs 1-5yrs for sight/sound (White TL, 1998; Willander J & Larsson M, 2006). Engaging these two in particular can be important for evoking a nostalgic experience for those who are repeat visitors to the experience. 
    Additionally, adding in a cafe or diner to a place of service (Barnes & Noble, Nordstrom, American Girl Doll, Costco, Disney) adds in an extra element of sociability. Eating is an inherently social & engaging activity (even if you are eating alone, you are connecting to nostalgia/comfort/ancestry/whoever made your food). In fact, a study from Rebecca Saxe's lab at MIT showed that social isolation & hunger led to the same region of the brain activating during social/food cravings (Tomova et. al., 2020), an indication that the two are more tightly related than general population assumes. Tapping into this leads to an elevated level of contentness following the experience and an increased likelihood of returning - for both the nostalgia factor and good eats on top of the original visit's purpose.
    
### _Theme the Experience_
  It was interesting to me that in the ten themes identified, every well-known or personally memorable experiences I have had are on the list. I think in terms of museums, "themes" should be taken in a more modular sense. Because of the wide variety of experiences that any given museum could offer, it is important to transform the guest's reality in a way that is tailored to any particular exhibit. My favorite example of this is the National Museum of Natural History, where each exhibit loops back into the main foyer, acting as almost a palate cleanser for each new exhibit visited. For example, the geology section is dark & cave-like, while the Bone Hall exhibit is much more bright & clinical to help separate the implications of bone (death) and the purpose of display (education & curiosity). However, these modular themes should all be connected in some way - whether it be natural history, scientific exploration, art appreciation, etc. As discussed, it is important for guests to have an accurate expectation of their visit to this experience.
  
### _Eliminate Negative Cues_
  This section reminded me a lot of Disney's Imagineers, who highly curate the theme parks so that there is no aspect that interferes with the sense of wonder & magic. Setting up cues, painting back buildings a certain color, and using forced perspective to make things appear larger or draw your attention to certain things (e.g. Cinderella's castle looks much larger than it is because the buildings get smaller & street narrower as you approach it). Being meticulous is important to create a cohesive exhibit. Something I realized from the MIT Museum tour is how museum curators have to work around the space they are given for any particular exhibit. Especially in a strangely shaped space with pipes running everywhere on the ceiling, it would be difficult to create a warm and inviting nature exhibit for example. In order to create a successful exhibit, it would be really important (especially for us when designing final project exhibits!) to understand the constraints of the space we are working with.