---
layout: post
published: true
category: updates
title: 'Museum Experience (Candy, Aron, Betsy)'
author: 'Candy, Aron, Betsy'
---
### Project Update (Candy, Aron, Betsy)

One important aspect of the MIT museum that makes it so appealing to the visitors is the ways in which it incorporates active learning. Instead of being overwhelmed with all the descriptions of the works inside, visitors are encouraged to make an effort in fetching the information they are curious about or exploring about subjects they are initially confused with. For instance, for each sector, in order to hear about the stories of the designers of the artworks or inspirations behind, visitors have to pick up a phone-shaped speaker. As if facing the person in recording in reality, visitors are then prompted to start a conversation by picking sections on the screen and hearing about the corresponding response or explanation. In the section regarding difficulty of distinguishing between reals and fakes in the AI era, instead of being fed with examples, visitors look at carefully selected videos and make choices themselves before knowing the correct answer. Additionally, along a wall of different models that served different purposes throughout the history of MIT, none are labeled with even a name, and instead, each model is assigned a number. This gives visitors a few moments to first contemplate what purpose each model may serve before they seek out an answer through several touch screens placed along the wall. In traditional museums, word-heavy descriptions are usually presented to visitors in small fonts on paper, making it difficult to understand and tedious to follow along. By cleverly incorporating media, MIT museum stimulates visitors to actually spend time pondering on those writings, reflecting on the implications of the artworks, and becoming an active contributor to their own experience. 

Additionally, many works displayed innovative and captivating features that could add some entertainment to the visitors’ time in the museum, while in the meantime deepening their understandings of the work. For example, there is a glass box filled with sand where geographic contours emerge as your fingers move around. There is also a bot that you can play around by awakening it with its name, asking it intellectual questions, or simply joking with it about whimsical contents like future prediction and monster detection. With these interactive designs, these static objects become alive, allowing visitors to have more intimate contact with them, either verbally or physically. These connections also perfectly embody some main themes of the museum as they provoke deeper questions about the relationship between humans and robots or technology.

Another interesting component of the MIT museum worth featuring is the ingenious display. Beginning with a full screen and a station committed to re-visualize MIT campus through Minecraft, the scale of the museum is set to transform from big to small. The circulation is intentionally designed in a way that categorizes the works into three categories: interactive stations, massive collections, and more private galleries. While the stations in the middle provide more flexible space for interaction and the photography gallery separated by walls ensures the individuality of each set of exhibition, the collections on the wall are also presented in a visually appealing way. To reduce the overwhelming sensory experiences of glaring at tons of works all at once, the works are placed on plastic platforms at different height levels, integrated with the use of light and shadow, to maximize the sense of independence between each other. In the gap between each platform, there are re-interpretation of the original inventions such as animation and motion graphics. One example is the motion graphics showing a geared wheelchair going up and down the stairs, making the mechanics behind the design a lot easier to grasp.
