---
layout: post
published: true
category: commentary
title: AI in Museums
tags:
  - Week 9
---
In the article “How are museums using artificial intelligence, and is AI the future of museums,” the author highlights the potential use of AI in museums and notes that we are still in the learning stage when it comes to using and training AI. They mention how AI can not only provide engagement for the visitors but also help with the museum’s own operations, an aspect I have not seen as much. While having AI in the museum space and interacting with the visitors is an interesting way to showcase AI potential and attract visitors, they can be a lot more helpful if used by the staff themselves. A previous reading mentioned that the modern-day curation process can be complex given how much digital data exists everywhere, and AI could become a more efficient way to help curators and exhibit designers pick and find the right piece of information. AI’s ability to sort through data paired with the decision-making of the human staff could vastly improve and rationalize the choices museums have to make regarding their collections.

While AI is a powerful tool in many aspects, we still need to make sure that they are used properly and responsibly. All the ethical questions around data collection and biases aside, training an AI to perform adequately can still be difficult as demonstrated in “A Museum’s Experience With AI.” Because of the commercial focus of today’s AI architecture and possibly the black-box nature of AI systems, the CHM realized the challenges that come with using AI in a museum. They found that the AI didn’t provide much beyond the original context of the information given and do not offer helpful insights. A different architecture may be needed in order for AI to process museum data in a more purposeful manner, a task that could potentially take a lot of time and effort but could ultimately transform the museums and their ways of dealing with information.

One potential use of generative AI I personally would like to see more of is the AI’s ability to create personalized exhibits for visitors. It is always difficult for museums to accommodate the needs and expectations of every visitor who steps in given the different experiences everyone has. Generative AI might be a way to bridge that gap and offer object labels, recommendations, or even entire digital galleries tailored to the visitor’s specifications of what they want to see. A powerful enough AI like ChatGPT might also be deployed as a personal companion to every visitor, offering them an opportunity to chat with the AI about different objects and gain different insights through the AI’s answers. This does require the AI to be specifically created for the museum’s collections and database while also maintaining a high level of correctness and accuracy, but when done right, it could be a powerful tool that allows different visitors to create their own experiences through their conversations with the AI system. 
